Sorting/README.md, before:

# Sorting Algorithms in C - How to Run

## Introduction
Welcome to the Sorting Algorithms Implementation in C repository! This repository focuses on implementing various sorting algorithms in the C programming language. Sorting algorithms are crucial for organizing data efficiently, making it easier to search and retrieve information. By understanding and implementing these algorithms, developers can enhance their problem-solving skills and write more efficient code.

### Available Sorting Algorithms
Here are the sorting algorithms available in this repository:
- **Bubble Sort**
- **Selection Sort**
- **Insertion Sort**
- **Merge Sort**
- **Quick Sort**
- **Heap Sort**

## Prerequisites
Before running the sorting algorithms, ensure that you have the following installed on your system:
- C compiler (e.g., GCC for Windows)
- Command-line interface (e.g., Command Prompt or PowerShell)

## Usage
Follow these steps to run the sorting algorithms on your Windows system:

1. **Clone the Repository:** Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Sorting-Algorithms-in-C.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to Algorithm Directory:** Change your current directory to the directory of the sorting algorithm you want to run. For example, to run Bubble Sort, navigate to the `1-bubble_sort` directory:
   ```
   cd Sorting-Algorithms-in-C/1-bubble_sort
   ```

3. **Compile the Code:** Compile the C file using your C compiler. For GCC, you can use the following command:
   ```
   gcc -o bubble_sort bubble_sort.c
   ```

4. **Run the Executable:** Once the compilation is successful, run the generated executable file. For Bubble Sort, execute the following command:
   ```
   bubble_sort.exe
   ```

5. **Repeat for Other Algorithms:** Repeat steps 2-4 for other sorting algorithms by navigating to their respective directories (e.g., `2-selection_sort`, `3-insertion_sort`, etc.) and compiling their C files.

## Contributors
- **Yuvraj Singh**
- **Gaurav Singh**

## Acknowledgements
- **Gaurav Singh**

This repository provides a collection of sorting algorithms implemented in C, along with instructions on how to run them on a Windows system. It serves as a valuable resource for learning and understanding sorting techniques in computer science.

Commit message:

refactor: update vs code intro in README.md

Sorting/README.md, after:

# Sorting Algorithms in C - How to Run

## Introduction
Welcome to the Sorting Algorithms Implementation in C repository! This repository focuses on implementing various sorting algorithms in the C programming language. Sorting algorithms are crucial for organizing data efficiently, making it easier to search and retrieve information. By understanding and implementing these algorithms, developers can enhance their problem-solving skills and write more efficient code.

### Available Sorting Algorithms
Here are the sorting algorithms available in this repository:
- **Bubble Sort**
- **Selection Sort**
- **Insertion Sort**
- **Merge Sort**
- **Quick Sort**
- **Heap Sort**

## Prerequisites
Before running the sorting algorithms, ensure that you have the following installed on your system:
- C compiler (e.g., GCC for Windows)
- Command-line interface (e.g., Command Prompt or PowerShell)
- Visual Studio Code or any other code editor

## Usage
### Running from Command Line
Follow these steps to run the sorting algorithms using the command line:

1. **Clone the Repository:** Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Sorting-Algorithms-in-C.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to Algorithm Directory:** Change your current directory to the directory of the sorting algorithm you want to run. For example, to run Bubble Sort, navigate to the `1-bubble_sort` directory:
   ```
   cd Sorting-Algorithms-in-C/1-bubble_sort
   ```

3. **Compile the Code:** Compile the C file using your C compiler. For GCC, you can use the following command:
   ```
   gcc -o bubble_sort bubble_sort.c
   ```

4. **Run the Executable:** Once the compilation is successful, run the generated executable file. For Bubble Sort, execute the following command:
   ```
   bubble_sort.exe
   ```

5. **Repeat for Other Algorithms:** Repeat steps 2-4 for other sorting algorithms by navigating to their respective directories (e.g., `2-selection_sort`, `3-insertion_sort`, etc.) and compiling their C files.

### Running from Visual Studio Code
Alternatively, you can use Visual Studio Code to compile and run the sorting algorithms. Here's how:

1. **Open the Repository:** Open the Sorting-Algorithms-in-C repository in Visual Studio Code.

2. **Install Extensions:** If you haven't already, install the following extensions for Visual Studio Code:
   - C/C++ extension for Visual Studio Code (ms-vscode.cpptools)

3. **Navigate to Algorithm File:** Open the C file of the sorting algorithm you want to run.

4. **Compile and Run:** Use the built-in terminal in Visual Studio Code to compile and run the code. Use commands like `gcc -o bubble_sort bubble_sort.c` to compile and `./bubble_sort` to run the executable.

## Contributors
- **Yuvraj Singh**
- **Gaurav Singh**

## Acknowledgements
- **Gaurav Singh**

This repository provides a collection of sorting algorithms implemented in C, along with instructions on how to run them on a Windows system. It serves as a valuable resource for learning and understanding sorting techniques in computer science.
